How disable logging (#1935)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/getting-started/observability/logging/disable/index.md

---
linkTitle: Disable logging

> title: Disable Logging

Reviewer: This sounds too generic. Sounds like you turn off logging overall, which isn't the case. The article heading needs to make sense standalone i.e. without knowing that it's a child of the "observability"/"logging" topic, so I'd suggest we make this more specific to what customers actually want to do here.

Reviewer 2: We should first rename to something like Disable Managed Logging for my Workload cluster but it should be under the observability topic for sure

description: This article explains how to turn off all managed logging for an entire workload cluster.
weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    identifier: getting-started-observability-logging-disable
    parent: getting-started-observability-logging
user_questions:
  - How can I disable logging on my cluster?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2023-10-11
aliases:
  - /ui-api/observability/logging/disable
  - /observability/logging/disable
---

In this article you will learn how you can disable logging for your cluster.

## Introduction to logging

> Since releases 19.1.0, cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our logging stack which allow us to provide you with 24/7 support to ensure best quality of service.

Reviewer: We're introducing CAPI clusters, so we can't assume vintage releases or that the cloud provider is AWS.

Suggestion:

```
The managed logging stack allows Giant Swarm to provide 24/7 support based on your workload cluster logs. Currently, this component is pre-installed on workload clusters for the following implementations:

- {{% impl_title "vintage_aws" %}}, release [v19.1.0](https://docs.giantswarm.io/changes/workload-cluster-releases-aws/releases/aws-v19.1.0/) or newer
```

> Each components logs deployed in the `kube-system` and `giantswarm` namespaces as well as kubernetes and machine audit logs are collected by our managed `promtail` pods and sent to a Loki instance running in your management cluster. You can access its logs by accessing our managed Grafana.

Reviewer: Is this extensible to other namespaces? Otherwise the stack isn't that helpful for customers.

Reviewer 2: Not right now because this is only for Giant Swarm but will eventually (depending on the customer choice) take all theirs appications logs

## Why would I like to disable logging?

You might create clusters where you do not need support from our operations team, for instance because you might just want to try something new for a while, or you are running a playground cluster where you know what you are doing.

> You may also have storage constraints and therefore would like to turn logging off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may also have storage or cost constraints and therefore would like to turn logging off.
```

---
linkTitle: Disable logging
title: Disable Logging
description: This article explains how to turn off all logging for an entire workload cluster.
weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    identifier: getting-started-observability-logging-disable
    parent: getting-started-observability-logging
user_questions:
  - How can I disable logging on my cluster?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2023-10-11
aliases:
  - /ui-api/observability/logging/disable
  - /observability/logging/disable
---

In this article you will learn how you can disable logging for your cluster.

## Introduction to logging

> Each cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our logging stack which allow us to retrieve logs from Kubernetes and GiantSwarm components. 

Reviewer 2: I would add a disclaimer here because 1, this is the case only on vintage, 2 that's starting from release v19.1.0. Also, it is currently disabled by default

> Each cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our logging stack which allow us to retrieve logs from Kubernetes and GiantSwarm components. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our logging stack which allow us to retrieve logs from Kubernetes and Giant Swarm managed components. 
```

> Hence we are able to follow components lifecycle and to debug incidents more efficiently.

Reviewer 2: Not sure this line should be here. I would probably add it in a Logging section

Author: Well, I followed what we did with monitoring disabling...

Reviewer 2: I might have written something like:

Since releases 19.1.0, cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our logging stack which allow us to provide you with 24/7 support to ensure best quality of service.

> Each components deployed in `kube-system` and `giantswarm` namespaces has its logs scraped by the `promtail` pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each components logs deployed in the `kube-system` and `giantswarm` namespaces as well as kubernetes and machine audit logs are collected by our managed `promtail` pods and sent to a Loki instance running in your management cluster. You can access its logs by accessing our managed Grafana.
```

Once we have a better log documentation we can log it here. WDYT?

  - /observability/logging/disable
---

> In this article you will learn how you can disable managed logging for your cluster (ie. logs of components to ensure the observability of the cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article you will learn how you can disable managed logging for your cluster (i.e. logs of components to ensure the observability of the cluster).
```

## Introduction to logging

The managed logging stack allows Giant Swarm to provide 24/7 support based on your workload cluster logs. Currently, this component is pre-installed on workload clusters for the following implementations:

- {{% impl_title "vintage_aws" %}}, release [v19.1.0](https://docs.giantswarm.io/changes/workload-cluster-releases-aws/releases/aws-v19.1.0/) or newer

> 

Reviewer: Please fix the lint warning (using markdownlint in your editor can prevent these before push)

## Introduction to logging

Since releases 19.1.0, cluster created on the Giant Swarm platform benefits from our logging stack which allow us to provide you with 24/7 support to ensure best quality of service.

> Hence we are able to follow components lifecycle and to debug incidents more efficiently.

Reviewer 2: I think I would remove this phrase

> /!\ Disclaimer: the logging is enabled by default in 19.1.0.

Reviewer 2: As you added since releases 19.1.0 then I am not sure we need the disclaimer :)
